# 21. Merge Two Sorted Lists

<a name="XZhto"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/)
<a name="9iYXp"></a>
## Question
Merge two sorted linked lists and return it as a new list. The new list should be made by splicing together the nodes of the first two lists.<br />
<br />Example:<br />Input: 1->2->4, 1->3->4<br />Output: 1->1->2->3->4->4
<a name="si9JS"></a>
## Thoughts
I would use recursion to solve this. During the recursion, compare the head of each linked list, the smaller one will merge with the rest of the elements, and return the head of the merged and sorted linked list. The recursion will end when one of the linked list is empty.
<a name="s4LCj"></a>
## Keys

- Know the linked list data structure.
- Conside edge cases.
<a name="NawH6"></a>
## Approaches

1. If the first linked list is empty, return the second linked list.
1. If the second linked list is empty, return the first linked list.
1. If the value of the head of the first linked list is small than the value of the head of the second linked list, then merge the head of the first linked list with the recursion of comparison of next of head of first linked list and the head of the second linked list, and so on. At the end, return the merged linked list which is first linked list.
1. Else, do the same thing but merge the head of the second linked list with the recursion of comparions of the head of first linked list and the next of head of second linked list. At the end, return the merged linked list which is the second linked list.
<a name="i18QQ"></a>
## Code
```javascript
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * function ListNode(val) {
 *     this.val = val;
 *     this.next = null;
 * }
 */
/**
 * @param {ListNode} l1
 * @param {ListNode} l2
 * @return {ListNode}
 */
const mergeTwoLists = function (l1, l2) {
  if (l1 === null) {
    return l2
  }
  if (l2 === null) {
    return l1
  }
  if (l1.val < l2.val) {
    l1.next = mergeTwoLists(l1.next, l2)
    return l1
  } else {
    l2.next = mergeTwoLists(l1, l2.next)
    return l2
  }
}
```
<a name="v5wQf"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

- M, N are the length of linked list l1 and l2.
- Time Complexity: O(M+N)
- Space Complexity: O(M+N)
<a name="F168G"></a>
## Tags
#Linked List, #Recursion
