# 26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array

<a name="TFNzE"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/)
<a name="ATfhd"></a>
## Question
Given a sorted array _nums_, remove the duplicates [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) such that each element appear only _once_ and return the new length.<br />Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by **modifying the input array [in-place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm)** with O(1) extra memory.<br />**Example 1:**<br />Given _nums_ = **[1,1,2]**,<br />
<br />Your function should return length = **`2`**, with the first two elements of _`nums`_ being **`1`** and **`2`** respectively.<br />
<br />It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.<br />**Example 2:**<br />Given _nums_ = **[0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]**,<br />
<br />Your function should return length = **`5`**, with the first five elements of _`nums`_ being modified to **`0`**, **`1`**, **`2`**, **`3`**, and **`4`** respectively.<br />
<br />It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.<br />**Clarification:**<br />Confused why the returned value is an integer but your answer is an array?<br />Note that the input array is passed in by **reference**, which means modification to the input array will be known to the caller as well.<br />Internally you can think of this:<br />// **nums** is passed in by reference. (i.e., without making a copy)<br />int len = removeDuplicates(nums);<br />
<br />// any modification to **nums** in your function would be known by the caller.<br />// using the length returned by your function, it prints the first **len** elements.<br />for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {<br />    print(nums[i]);<br />}
<a name="w8l5I"></a>
## Thoughts
Use two pointers (fast and slow) to save and iterate thourhg the array. At the beginning, two pointers point at the first number, if two pointers point at the same number, then fast pointer move forward one index, if not, then both pointers move forward one index. When the fast pointer iterates to the end of the array, the index of slow pointer plus one would be the length of sorted array without duplicates.
<a name="q8CsE"></a>
## Keys

- If this problem doesn't require O(n) time complexity and O(1) space complexity, that would be easier.
- If the data is unsorted, than we can't use two pointers here. So we can see the importance of sorting in algorithm.
- Don't forget to check the edge cases like nums is null.
<a name="4XdR9"></a>
## Approaches

1. Create a varible to hold the size of the array (Skip this step if you want).
1. Check the edge case, if the size of the array is 0, then return 0.
1. Create a slow pointer to hold the index 0.
1. Use a for loop to iterate through the array ( i === fast pointer)
1. Check if the number of slow pointer is not equals to the number of fast pointer, then increment the index of slow pointer,  and set the number of slow pointer to the number of fast pointer.
1. Out of the loop, return the slow pointer + 1.
<a name="grVST"></a>
## Code
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {number}
 */
var removeDuplicates = function(nums) {
    const size = nums.length
    if (size === 0) return 0
  	let slowP = 0
    for (let fastP = 0; fastP < size; fastP++) {
      if (nums[fastP] !== nums[slowP]) {
        slowP++
        nums[slowP] = nums[fastP]
      }
    }
  return slowP + 1
};
```
<a name="x8pAN"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: O(n)
- Space Complexity: O(1)
<a name="koXjg"></a>
## Tags
#Two Pointers
