# 53. Maximum Subarray

<a name="ZntN3"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray/](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray/)
<a name="ty7yt"></a>
## Question
Given an integer array `nums`, find the contiguous subarray (containing at least one number) which has the largest sum and return its sum.<br />**Example:**<br />**Input:** [-2,1,-3,4,-1,2,1,-5,4],<br />**Output:** 6<br />**Explanation:** [4,-1,2,1] has the largest sum = 6.<br />**Follow up:**<br />If you have figured out the O(_n_) solution, try coding another solution using the divide and conquer approach, which is more subtle.
<a name="iGGqc"></a>
## Thoughts
If I use brute force, I would need to use it with prefix sum to make it better, so I don't need to use three for loops. Instead, use two for loops to get the sum of each subarray and get the maximum of it. There is a better way which is dynamic programming. I just need one for loop to iterate through the array, then check if the current number is larger than the sum of numbers added before the current number. Then I will check if the result from the last check is large than the maximum I initialized at the beginning.
<a name="sqeJa"></a>
## Approaches

1. Brute Force with Prefix Sum
   1. Create a varibale to hold the length of the array.
   1. Create a variable to hold the sum, which is -inf now.
   1. Create a variable to hold the current sum.
   1. Use two for loop to iterate through the array.
   1. Set the current sum back to 0 in the first for loop.
   1. On the second for loop, set the current sum to the current sum + current number.
   1. Set the sum to the maximum of current sum andsum.
   1. Finally, return the sum.
2. Dynamic Programming
   1. Create a variable to hold the first number of the array.
   1. Use for loop to iterate through the array.
   1. Set the current number to the maximum of curent number or the sum added by the numbers before the current number.
   1. Set the maximum sum to the maximum of curretn number or the maximum sum.
   1. Finally, return the maximum sum.
<a name="M97by"></a>
## Code

1. Brute Force with Prefix Sum
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxSubArray = function(nums) {
    const size = nums.length
    let max = -Number.MAX_VALUE
    let sum = 0
    for (let i = 0; i < size; i++) {
      sum = 0
      for (let j = i; j < size; j++) {
        sum += nums[j]
        max = Math.max(sum, max)
      }
    }
  return max
};
```

2. Dynamic Programming
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxSubArray = function(nums) {
  let max = nums[0]
  for (let i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) {
    nums[i] = Math.max(nums[i], nums[i] + nums[i - 1])
    max = Math.max(max, nums[i])
  }
  return max
};
```
<a name="XmxI8"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

1. Brute Force with Prefix Sum
   1. Time Complexity: O(n^2)
   1. Space Complexity: O(n)
2. Dynamic Programming
   1. Time Complexity: O(n)
   1. Space Complexity: O(1)
<a name="UVyia"></a>
## Tags
#Dynamic Programmig, #Prefix Sum
