# 121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock

<a name="A8bsZ"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/)
<a name="R3ikA"></a>
## Question
Say you have an array for which the _i_ element is the price of a given stock on day _i_.<br />If you were only permitted to complete at most one transaction (i.e., buy one and sell one share of the stock), design an algorithm to find the maximum profit.<br />Note that you cannot sell a stock before you buy one.<br />**Example 1:**<br />**Input:** [7,1,5,3,6,4]<br />**Output:** 5<br />**Explanation:** Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.<br />             Not 7-1 = 6, as selling price needs to be larger than buying price.<br />**Example 2:**<br />**Input:** [7,6,4,3,1]<br />**Output:** 0<br />**Explanation:** In this case, no transaction is done, i.e. max profit = 0.
<a name="Zb8PE"></a>
## Thoughts
Since we want to get the maximum pofit, our strategy should be buy low, sell high. However, we can only make one transcation. So we need to find the highest peak valley value to get the maximum profit.
<a name="ElXTu"></a>
## Keys

- Just draw a graph in your mind or somewhere else and your will see the answer.
<a name="JgeKX"></a>
## Approaches

1. Brute Force
   1. Create a variable to hold the maximum profit.
   1. Use two loops to iterate through the prices.
   1. Create a variable to hold the current profit.
   1. If the current profit is less than the maximum profit, then set maximum profit to current profit; otherwise, maximum profit stays the same.
   1. Finally return the maximum profit.
2. One Pass
   1. Create a variable to hold the first price as min price.
   1. Create a varible to hold the profit which is 0 right now.
   1. Use a for loop to iterate throught the prices starting from the second one of the prices.
   1. If the current price is larger the price of the day before, then set the profit with the maximum of porfit we set at the beginning and the difference between current price and min price.
   1. Otherwise, we set the min price by the minimum of min price we set at the beginning and the current price.
   1. Finally, return the maximum profit.
<a name="h8NdR"></a>
## Code

1. Brute Force
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} prices
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxProfit = function(prices) {
  let maxProfit = 0
  for (let i = 0; i < prices.length - 1; i++) {
    for (let j = i + 1; j < prices.length; j++) {
      let profit = prices[j] - prices[i]
      if (profit > maxProfit) {
        maxProfit = profit
      }
    }
  }
  return maxProfit
}
```

2. One Pass
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} prices
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxProfit = function(prices) {
  let min = prices[0]
  let profit = 0
  for (let i = 1; i < prices.length; i++) {
    if (prices[i] > prices[i - 1]) {
      profit = Math.max(profit, prices[i] - min)
    } else {
      min = Math.min(min, prices[i])
    }
  }
  return profit
}
```


<a name="TNRgl"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

1. Brute Force
   1. Time Complexity: O(n^2)
   1. Space Complexity: O(1)
2. One Pass
   1. Time Complexity: O(n)
   1. Space Complexity: O(1)
<a name="RbQs4"></a>
## Tags
#Stock, #One Pass, #Peak Valley
