# 88. Merge Sorted Array

<a name="wthCx"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-sorted-array/](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-sorted-array/)
<a name="IaLdH"></a>
## Question
Given two sorted integer arrays _nums1_ and _nums2_, merge _nums2_ into _nums1_ as one sorted array.<br />**Note:**

- The number of elements initialized in _nums1_ and _nums2_ are _m_ and _n_ respectively.
- You may assume that _nums1_ has enough space (size that is greater or equal to _m_ + _n_) to hold additional elements from _nums2_.

**Example:**<br />**Input:**<br />nums1 = [1,2,3,0,0,0], m = 3<br />nums2 = [2,5,6],       n = 3<br />
<br />**Output:** [1,2,2,3,5,6]
<a name="mYXp6"></a>
## Thoughts
Most straightforward idea is push the nums2 to the end of nums1, and then sort the nums1, but this idea don't need to use the m, which is the size of nums1, so I think that is not what the questioner want. This problem is similar to merge sort, but we can't use a new array here. So we use three pointers, 1 for the current index of where we will fill the number, 1 for the index of which element we are comparing at the nums1, 1 for the index of which element we are comparing at the nums2.
<a name="475CQ"></a>
## Keys

- Compare from the end to the beginning, and push from the end to the beginnig.
<a name="ks78W"></a>
## Approaches

1. Create a variable to hold the potiner for the current index which is the length of nums1 + nums2 - 1.
1. Use a while loop to start merging until the current point is less than 0.
1. Check edge case if the size of nums2 is 0, then return.
1. If the size of nums1 is less than 1, then set the current of nums1 to the last number of nums2, then decrement both pointers, then continue.
1. If the size of nums2 is less than 1, then set the current of nums1 to the last number of nums1, then decrement both pointers, then continue.
1. Lastly, if the last number of nums1 is larger than the last number of nums2, than fill it to the end of nums1, then decrement both pointers.
1. Otherwise, fill the last number of nums2 to the end of nums1, then decrement both pointers.
<a name="6wbr8"></a>
## Code
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums1
 * @param {number} m
 * @param {number[]} nums2
 * @param {number} n
 * @return {void} Do not return anything, modify nums1 in-place instead.
 */
var merge = function(nums1, m, nums2, n) {
  let current = m + n - 1
  while (current >= 0) {
    if (n === 0) return
    if (m < 1) {
      nums1[current--] = nums2[--n]
      continue
    }
    if (n < 1) {
      nums1[current--] = nums1[--m]
      continue
    }
    if (nums1[m - 1] > nums2[n - 1]) {
      nums1[current--] = nums1[--m]
    } else {
      nums1[current--] = nums2[--n]
    }
  }
};
```
<a name="dqC3f"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: O(m + n)
- Space Complexity: O(1)
<a name="WqqIm"></a>
## Tags
#Three Pointers
