# 125. Valid Palindrome

<a name="pys6j"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome/](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome/)
<a name="DzcrE"></a>
## Question
Given a string, determine if it is a palindrome, considering only alphanumeric characters and ignoring cases.<br />**Note:** For the purpose of this problem, we define empty string as valid palindrome.<br />**Example 1:**<br />**Input:** "A man, a plan, a canal: Panama"<br />**Output:** true<br />**Example 2:**<br />**Input:** "race a car"<br />**Output:** false
<a name="CSP1V"></a>
## Thoughts

- I think we can use two pointers to solve this problem
   - If the number both pointers point at are different, then just return false.
   - If the number both pointers point at are the same, then we update both pointers, and check again, until they meet together.
<a name="jnv9d"></a>
## Keys

- Two Pointers
<a name="7l0IA"></a>
## Approaches

1. FIrst of all, make all the character in the string to lower case.
1. Create two pointers, one from the beginning of the string, and the other one from the end of the string.
1. Use a while loop, and the ending condition is when both pointers are at the same index.
1. Now, we need a helper function to check if the character in the string is digit or character or neither.
1. For the helper function, make a varible to hold the character code for the character.
1. If the character code is larger than or equals to the character code of 0 and less than or equals to the character of 9, then it is digit.
1. If the character code is larger than or equals to the character code of 'a' and less than or equals to the character of 'z', then it is a character.
1. Return if it is digit or character.
1. Back to the while loop, if the character of the left pointer is not valid, then increment the left pointer and continue.
1. If the character of the right pointer is not valid, then increment the right pointer and continue.
1. If the character of the left pointer is the same as the character of the right pointer, then increment both pointers.
1. Otherwise, just break.
1. Finally, return whether right pointer is less or equals to the left pointer.
<a name="PQeVz"></a>
## Code
```javascript
/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @return {boolean}
 */
function isValid(c) {
  const charCode = c.charCodeAt(0)
  const isDigit = charCode >= '0'.charCodeAt(0) && charCode <= '9'.charCodeAt(0)
  const isChar = charCode >= 'a'.charCodeAt(0) && charCode <= 'z'.charCodeAt(0)
  return isDigit || isChar
}

var isPalindrome = function(s) {
  s = s.toLowerCase()
  let left = 0
  let right = s.length - 1
  while (left < right) {
    if (!isValid(s[left])) {
      left++
      continue
    }
    if (!isValid(s[right])) {
      right--
      continue
    }
    if (s[left] === s[right]) {
      left++
      right--
    } else {
      break
    }
  }
  return right <= left
}
```
<a name="PSXc6"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: O(n)
- Space Complexity: O(1)
<a name="RsMji"></a>
## Tags
#Two Pointers
