# 167. Two Sum II - Input Array is Sorted

<a name="7krib"></a>
## Question Link
[https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum-ii-input-array-is-sorted/](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum-ii-input-array-is-sorted/)
<a name="AOsSP"></a>
## Question
Given an array of integers that is already **_sorted in ascending order_**, find two numbers such that they add up to a specific target number.<br />The function twoSum should return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to the target, where index1 must be less than index2.<br />**Note:**

- Your returned answers (both index1 and index2) are not zero-based.
- You may assume that each input would have _exactly_ one solution and you may not use the _same_ element twice.

**Example:**<br />**Input:** numbers = [2,7,11,15], target = 9<br />**Output:** [1,2]<br />**Explanation:** The sum of 2 and 7 is 9. Therefore index1 = 1, index2 = 2.
<a name="fMkOV"></a>
## Thoughts

- Since this problem doesn't have space complexity requirement, so we can just use hashmap.
- If this problem has space complexity requirement, since the array is sorted, so we can use two pointers. If the value of left pointer + right pointer is larger than the target, than decrement the right pointer, otherwise, increment the left pointer.
<a name="FUw9B"></a>
## Approaches

1. Hash Map
   1. Initialize a map.
   1. Use a for loop to iterate through the array.
   1. Make a variable to hold the value of current index.
   1. If the map has the value of target - the value of current index, then return the answer, which is the array of the index of the target - the value of current index in the map, and the current index + 1.
   1. Otherwise, push the value of current index and the current index to the map.
2. Two Pointers
   1. Create two pointers, left one holds 0, right one holds the end of the array.
   1. Use while loop, the ending condition is when both pointers meet togerther.
   1. If the value of left pointer + right pointer is smaller than the target, then increment the left pointer.
   1. If it is larger than the target, than decremenet the right pointer.
   1. If it is the same as the target, than return the index of left pointer + 1 and the index of right pointer + 1.
<a name="WK1pm"></a>
## Code

1. Hash Map
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} numbers
 * @param {number} target
 * @return {number[]}
 */
var twoSum = function(numbers, target) {
  const visited = {}
  for (let index = 0; index < numbers.length; index++) {
    const element = numbers[index]
    if (visited[target - element] !== undefined) {
      return [visited[target - element], index + 1]
    }
    visited[element] = index + 1
  }
  return []
}
```

2. Two Pointers
```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} numbers
 * @param {number} target
 * @return {number[]}
 */
var twoSum = function(numbers, target) {
  let left = 0
  let right = numbers.length - 1
  while (left < right) {
    if (numbers[left] + numbers[right] < target) {
      left += 1
    }
    if (numbers[left] + numbers[right] > target) {
      right -= 1
    }
    if (numbers[left] + numbers[right] === target) {
      return [left + 1, right + 1]
    }
  }
}
```
<a name="idrgC"></a>
## Complexity Analysis

1. Hash Map
   1. Time Complexity: O(n)
   1. Space Complexity: O(n)
2. Two Pointers
   1. Time Complexity: O(n)
   1. Space Complexity: O(1)
<a name="wyUsL"></a>
## Tags
#Hash Map, #Two Pointers
